# Giganci Programowania Zadanie Rekrutacyjne

 E2E Automation Tests for the registration form written using:
- **Selenium v. "4.21.0"**
- **Java v. "17.0.1"**
- **Maven v. "3.9.7"**
- **JUnit v. "5.11.0-m2"**
- **Cucumber v. "7.18.0"**

## Overiew
The tests are based on the provided by Giganci Programowania test cases from Google Sheets. The registration form is the topic of testing. There are in total 5 test cases that test whether the form is working correctly.

## Dependencies and Setup
To run the tests you have to have maven and java installed on your machine and have them added to the PATH. You will also need Google Chrome browser:
[Java installation](https://www.oracle.com/java/technologies/downloads/#jdk23-windows)
[Maven installation](https://maven.apache.org/install.html)
[Google Chrome installation](https://www.google.com/chrome/)

The rest of the dependencies will get aquired via pom.xml maven configuration file automatically.
## Running Tests

To run tests, run the following commands from the root directory:

```bash
  mvn test
```
In case the build fails you may need to run the following command to clean the files generated by previous build:
```bash
  mvn clean test
```

## Test reports
Reports from test is generated as Cucumber .html file in:
```
target/cucumber-report.html
```

## Project structure
I have based my project on Page Object Model, where each next step in registration form is resembled by seperate Page class in directory:
```bash
 > giganciprogramowaniatest
 >> pages
 ```
 which makes it easy to maintain and expand the Page class.
 The test cases steps are written in Cucumber in feature file:
 ```bash
 > giganciprogramowaniatest
 >> resources
 >>> features/register.feature
 ```
 They are written in plain English which makes it easier for non-technical person to follow on what's happening in the test. I have also chosen this framework in favour of BDD (Behaviour Driven Development). It's also possible to edit some of the values provided in test case by changing the value in quotes ''. It may be especially useful for last test case as the provided test date may result in failed test if used too many times.
 
The step definition appear in file:
 
 ```bash
 > giganciprogramowaniatest
 >> steps
 >>> registration/RegistrationSteps.java
 ```
 It's where the underlying Java code gets executed.
 
 I based my project on Java and Maven due to easy and fast setup. Also I find it to be simmilar to C# (which has been listed in requirements for the job) but I have used Java more lately and felt more comfortable with it as for right now. As for Selenium I used it because I'm familar with it and from what I gathered during the interview it's also in use in your company.
 
 
 
 